What is GitHub?

GitHub is a code hosting platform for collaboration and version control.
GitHub lets you (and others) work together on projects.

what is Repository
A GitHub repository can be used to store a development project.
or a place where we keep our project in github

what is README
README file contain information about the project.

to use github we must install git cli in our computer 
download and install in your computer
https://git-scm.com/downloads 


how to create a new project in github?

login into you github account
www.github.com

step 1 : go to your github https://github.com/mdfiroz811315
step 2 : click repositories
step 3 : click new
step 4 : add Repository name , Description and click Add a README file
step 5 : Create Repository your new repository will be created


How to Clone Git Project in your Machine

step 1 : go to git repository you want to clone
step 2 : click on code
Step 3 : copy clone Https URL example https://github.com/mdfiroz811315/hello-world.git
step 4 : open you machine command prompt
step 5 : go to the location where you want to download this code
step 6 : git clone "Github Repository URL" for example git clone https://github.com/mdfiroz811315/hello-world.git

how to open this code in VS?

step 1 :cd location (go inside of git fold-er which got created)
step 2 : code .

how to push code to github?

step 1: if you do any changes you will get notify in source control icon click it.
step 2: hover on Changes and click + (you will see stage changes appear)
step 3 : add commit message on top 
step 4 : click on tick (right symbol)
step 5 : click on Sync Changes


**Git Using Commandline

**to go code history using commit

git reset --hard 085515d539f2c59d3b564fd1a0eab930900f2a33(commit number)

git pull

// to push code from cmd in git

git status

git add .

git commit -m "my changes through cmd"

git push


How Team collaboration are done in git ?
its done by using multiple brances.
A branch is essentially is a unique set of code changes with a unique name.
 Each repository can have one or more branches. 
 The main branch — the one where all changes eventually get merged back into, 
 and is called master. 

 How to Create Branch ?

 Through Github 
 Step 1 : goto git repository
 Step 2 : click on main (branch section)
 Step 3 : Add Branch Name ()
 step 4 : Create branch(new branch will get created from main branch)
 Through Visual studio Terminal
 step 1: git checkout -b "new branch" (Enter)
 step 2: save code and commit
 step 3: click on Publish Branch 

 how to check your branch name
 git branch

 To Change your branch
 git checkout "branch name"

 How to Merge code from Other to Main Branch i.e Create Pull Request
  step 1 : push code from your branch
  Step 2 : Go To Github repo
  Step 3 : click on pull Request
  step 4 : click on new pull Request
  step 5 : in "Comparing changes" select base(jaha code jaega example main)  to compare(jaha se merge karenge example new branch)
  Step 6 : Click Create Pull Request (it will check your conflict etc for few seconds)
  Step 7 : Click Merge Pull Request
  Step 8 : Confirm Merge

  How to Resolve Merge Conflict using VS code ?
  if in same file multiple people do change we will have merge conflict when we push our code

  Step 1 : Select what you want to do (accept present/ accept incomming / merge both)
  Step 2 : click on merge change plus sign
  step 3 : Save Change and Push Code 
  
To Delete git Branch
 git branch –d branchfromvs

