What is MongoDB?

MongoDB is an open-source, cross-platform, and distributed document-based database designed for ease of application development and scaling.
 It is a NoSQL database developed by MongoDB Inc.


 The following table lists the relation between MongoDB and RDBMS terminologies.

NoSQL Database(MongoDB ,Cloudant)	RDBMS (SQL Server, Oracle,Mysql etc.)
Database	                        Database
Collection	                        Table
Document	                        Row (Record)
Field	                            Column

Advantages of MongoDB

MongoDB stores data as JSON based document that does not enforce the schema. It allows us to store hierarchical data in a document. This makes it easy to store and retrieve data in an efficient manner.
It is easy to scale up or down as per the requirement since it is a document based database. MongoDB also allows us to split data across multiple servers.
MongoDB provides rich features like indexing, aggregation, file store, etc.
MongoDB performs fast with huge data.
MongoDB provides drivers to store and fetch data from different applications developed in different technologies such as C#, Java, Python, Node.js, etc.
MongoDB provides tools to manage MongoDB databases.

Step to Create Mongodb Database in Mongo Atlas(Cloud base mongodb service)
Step 1: Signup your self in https://www.mongodb.com/cloud/atlas/register
Step 2: Login
Step 3: Click on Create
step 4: choose shared -> aws -> mumbai and save

How to add IP to access the cluster

step 1 :left panel under security go to network access
Step 2: Add Ip Address
Step 3 : add 0.0.0.0 in Access List Entry:

How to add user to access the database

step 1 :left panel under security go to Database access
Step 2 : Click add new database user
step 3 : select password and provide details (remember pssword it will be neede later)
step 4: click on add user

How to check your data collection 
step 1 : Left panel under Deployment go to database
step 2 : click on browse collection

how to get collection string which are needed to connect database from Nodejs,java etc
step 1 : Left panel under Deployment go to database
Step 2 : click Connect
Step 3 : Click Connect Your Application




